More Recalls, Market
Withdrawals, &
Safety Alerts
Summary
Company Announcement Date:
September 14, 2026
FDA Publish Date:
September 15, 2026
Product Type:
Dietary Supplements Food & Beverages
Reason for Announcement:
Recall Reason Description
Product contains sildenafil and tadalafil
Company Name:
A&P Creations LLC
Brand Name:
Brand Name(s)
biQ-FEL
Product Description:
Product Description
biQ-FEL 500mL supplement bottle
Company Announcement
CLERMONT, Florida - A&P Creations LLC is recalling certain lots of dietary supplement biQ-FEL 500 mL at the consumer level because it has been found to contain undeclared Sildenafil and Tadalafil.
Sildenafil and Tadalafil are active ingredients in FDA-approved prescription drugs Viagra and Cialis, respectively, used to treat erectile dysfunction. FDA approval of Viagra and Cialis is restricted to use under the supervision of a licensed health care professional. These undeclared ingredients may interact with nitrates found in some prescription drugs, such as nitroglycerin, and may lower blood pressure to dangerous levels. People with diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or heart disease often take nitrates.
As of September 14, 2026, A&P Creations LLC has not received any reports of adverse events related to this recall.
The recalled product is biQ-FEL, a liquid packaged in a 500 mL bottle bearing the biQ-FEL name. The product label includes Spanish-language text, including “Sabor artificial Hierbabuena” and was distributed to consumers in the U.S. through Amazon, Walmart.com, and naturefuel.us. It includes:
Lot Number
Expiration Date
UPC/Barcode Identifier
biQ-f001-06-25
05/06/27
biQ-FEL
biQ-003-01-26
01/01/28
7709799120663
A&P Creations LLC distributed biQ-FEL as a finished product and did not manufacture or formulate the product. A&P Creations LLC decided to recall biQ-FEL 500 mL after U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) laboratory analysis identified sildenafil and tadalafil that were not listed on the product labeling.
A&P Creations LLC has ceased distribution of biQ-FEL 500 mL and is notifying affected customers through direct electronic notifications and applicable marketplace customer notification procedures as part of this voluntary recall. Consumers who have the recalled biQ-FEL 500 mL product should stop using it immediately and are urged to destroy the product.
Consumers with questions regarding this recall may contact A&P Creations LLC at ecommerce@naturefuel.us Monday to Friday from 9:00 am to 4:00 pm ET.
Consumers should contact their physician or healthcare provider if they have experienced any problems that may be related to taking or using this product.
Adverse reactions or quality problems experienced with the use of this product may be reported to FDA's MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting Program online at www.fda.gov/medwatch/report.htm .
This recall is being conducted with the knowledge of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
Company Contact Information
Consumers:
ecommerce@naturefuel.us
Product Photos
Content current as of:
09/15/2026
Regulated Product(s)
Dietary Supplements
Food & Beverages
Follow FDA
Follow @US_FDA on X
Follow FDA on Facebook
Follow @FDArecalls on X
Recent Recalled Product Photos on FDA's Flickr Photostream