Recalls
Outbreaks
Safety Alerts & Advisories
The food supply in the United States is among the safest in the world. However, there are certain bacteria and pathogens that can contaminate food and cause foodborne illness, often known as "food poisoning."
FDA provides educational resources related to food safety, including how you can safely buy, store, prepare and serve food.
Featured Content
5 Red Flags to Look For When Shopping for Meal Kits
With the increasing popularity of meal kits, the FDA highlights tips on what to do when a box first arrives at your door, including several red flags that may indicate unsafe food.
Advice about Eating Fish
This advice can help those who might become or are pregnant or breastfeeding as well as parents and caregivers who are feeding children make informed choices when it comes to the types of fish that are nutritious and safe to eat.
Food Facts
View our Food Facts (factsheets) on key topics such as:
Additives
Allergies
Beverages
Cosmetics
Dairy
Dietary Supplements
Emergencies
Foodborne Illness
Fruit/Vegetable/Juice
Holidays
Irradiation
Nutrition
Labeling
People At Risk
Pregnancy
Seafood
Microwave Safety
Risk Assessment
Food Safety in Your Kitchen
When you prepare meals and snacks for yourself, your family, and your friends, it is important to follow simple food safety tips to help prevent foodborne illness, also known as “food poisoning.” Whether you are a home cook, a professional chef, or a recipe writer, there are some easy steps you can take to help keep your food safe all the way from the grocery store to the kitchen table.
Everyday Food Safety for Young Adults
Every day, you handle, cook, and prepare food for you and your family. The steps you take can mean the difference between a good day and bad case of foodborne illness, also known as “food poisoning.” Take a few seconds to learn about food safety whether you’re cooking at home, dining out, or eating ready-made meals on the go.
Queso Fresco-type Cheeses Consumer Guidance
Queso fresco-type cheeses are soft fresh cheeses that do not go through a significant aging or ripening process. They have a short shelf-life and need to be refrigerated for food safety. Depending on the country of origin, some of the more popular queso fresco-type cheeses may be labeled as Latin-style, Hispanic-style, or Mexican-style cheeses.
FDA’s Human Foods Program Education Resource Library is a catalog of printable educational materials and videos on topics related to food safety, nutrition (including labeling and dietary supplements), and cosmetics. These materials are intended for consumers, educators, dietitians, and health professionals as well as for industry and regulators. Materials are available in PDF format for immediate download. Some print materials are also available and can be ordered individually or in limited quantities.
Content current as of:
01/16/2025
Regulated Product(s)
Food & Beverages
Topic(s)
Preparation & Storage
Foodborne Illness