January 27, 2023, Update:
These products are now linked to an ongoing outbreak. More information can be found on the Outbreak Investigation of Listeria monocytogenes : Enoki Mushrooms (November 2022) .
Audience
Consumers, restaurants, and food retailers that have received enoki mushrooms labeled as “Producer: Shandong Youhe Biotechnology Co.,” with an address in China, and “Distributed By: Sun Hong Foods, Inc.” do not eat, sell, or serve these products.
Listeria is especially harmful if you are pregnant, aged 65 or older, or have a weakened immune system due to certain medical conditions or treatments. If you are in any of these groups, do not eat any raw enoki mushrooms. For enoki mushrooms that are not recalled or potentially contaminated, always cook enoki mushrooms thoroughly to kill any foodborne germs.
Product
Product is labeled as “Producer: Shandong Youhe Biotechnology Co.,” with an address in China, and “Distributed By: Sun Hong Foods, Inc.” enoki mushrooms.
Purpose
See Outbreak Advisory for recommendations to consumers, restaurants, and retailers.
Summary of Problem and Scope
On November 28, 2022, Missouri state partners, as a part of the FDA-funded Laboratory Flexible Funding Model Cooperative Agreement Program collected enoki mushroom samples from retail markets in Missouri. One sample labeled as “Producer: Shandong Youhe Biotechnology Co.,” with an address in China, and “Distributed By: Sun Hong Foods, Inc.” tested positive for Listeria monocytogenes . The strain of Listeria found in these products matches one of the two strains linked to illnesses in this outbreak.
Additional sample collection and analysis conducted by the Maryland Department of Health have also identified both outbreak strains of Listeria monocytogenes in two product samples of enoki mushrooms. These products that tested positive are sold in a 7.05-oz (200g) clear plastic package with a brown and green label and include a label on the back of the package that states: “Producer: Shandong Youhe Biotechnology Co.,” with an address in China, and “Distributed By: Sun Hong Foods, Inc.”. For more information and product photos, please see the Outbreak Advisory .
FDA Actions
This is an ongoing investigation and updates will be provided through the FDA Outbreak Advisory.
Symptoms of Listeriosis
There are a range of symptoms for listeriosis. Depending on the severity of the illness, symptoms may last from days to several weeks. Mild symptoms may include a fever, muscle aches, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. If the more severe form of listeriosis develops, symptoms may include headache, stiff neck, confusion, loss of balance, and convulsions. For the very young, the elderly, and the immune-compromised listeriosis can result in death.
People infected with L. monocytogenes may start to see symptoms in a few hours or as long as two to three days after eating contaminated food. More severe forms of listeriosis may take anywhere from three days to three months to develop.
Listeriosis can be particularly dangerous for pregnant women and can lead to serious complications with their pregnancy, including miscarriage and stillbirth. Babies born with a listeriosis infection may develop severe health complications that require immediate medical attention, lead to lifelong health problems, or result in death. Pregnant women who suspect they have symptoms of listeriosis (muscles aches, nausea, stiffness in neck, headaches, etc.) should seek medical care immediately and tell their health provider what they ate. Learn more about People at Risk of Foodborne Illness .
Due to the range in severity of illness, people should consult their health care provider if they suspect that they have developed symptoms that resemble L. monocytogenes infection.
Additional Information
FDA’s Outbreak Investigation of Listeria monocytogenes : Enoki Mushrooms (November 2022)
FDA Strategy to Help Prevent Listeriosis and Salmonella Outbreaks Associated with Imported Enoki and Imported Wood Ear Mushrooms
Listeria
Who to Contact
Consumers who have symptoms should contact their health care provider to report their symptoms and receive care.
To report a complaint or adverse event (illness or serious allergic reaction), visit Industry and Consumer Assistance .
Content current as of:
01/27/2023
Regulated Product(s)
Food & Beverages