Product and stores affected (updated 10/7/2025)
Certain frozen shrimp products processed by PT. Bahari Makmur Sejati (doing business as BMS Foods), a company located in Indonesia.
All recalls related to this incident will be posted on the 2025 Recalls of Frozen Shrimp Products Associated with Cesium-137 Contamination from PT. Bahari Makmur Sejati due to Potential Safety Concerns page moving forward.
Additional recalls have been initiated by firms who have reached out directly to their customers.
At this time, no product that has tested positive or alerted for Cesium-137 (Cs-137) has entered the U.S. marketplace. FDA is working with distributors and retailers that received product from PT. Bahari Makmur Sejati after the date of first detection of Cs-137 by Customs & Border Protection (CBP), but from shipments that did not alert for Cs-137, to recommend that firms conduct a recall. In conjunction with other information, FDA determined that product from PT. Bahari Makmur Sejati violates the Federal Food, Drug, & Cosmetic Act in that it appears to have been prepared, packed, or held under insanitary conditions whereby it may have become contaminated with Cs-137 and may pose a safety concern.
FDA has also added PT. Bahari Makmur Sejati to a new import alert for chemical contamination to stop products from this firm from coming into the U.S. until the firm has resolved the conditions that gave rise to the appearance of the violation.
FDA’s investigation is ongoing . This advisory will be updated if advice for consumers changes based on investigational activities.
Health impacts of cesium exposure
FDA detected Cs-137 in a single shipment of imported frozen shrimp from PT. Bahari Makmur Sejati that did not enter U.S. commerce. The level of Cs-137 detected in the detained shipment was approximately 68 Bq/kg, which is below FDA’s Derived Intervention Level for Cs-137 of 1200 Bq/kg. At this level, the product would not pose an acute hazard to consumers. Avoiding products like the shipment FDA tested with similar levels of Cs-137 is a measure intended to reduce exposure to low-level radiation that could have health impacts with continued exposure over a long period of time.
The primary health effect of concern following longer term, repeated low dose exposure (e.g., through consumption of contaminated food or water over time) is an elevated risk of cancer, resulting from damage to DNA within living cells of the body. Additional information about Cs-137 and your health is available through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry resources .
Recommendation
If you recently purchased one of the impacted lots of raw or cooked frozen shrimp throw it away. Do not eat or serve this product.
Distributors and retailers should dispose of this product and should not sell or serve this product.
If you suspect you have been exposed to elevated levels of cesium, talk to your healthcare provider.
Current Update
September 25, 2025
On September 23, 2025, Southwind Foods, LLC of Carson, CA expanded its recall to include a limited quantity of Frozen Shrimp. The bagged, frozen shrimp product was distributed between June 24 – September 16, 2025, to retailers, distributors, and wholesalers in the following states: AL, AZ, CA, CO, CT, FL, GA, HI, ID, IN, KS, KY, LA, MA, MI, MN, MO, MT, NE, NV, NJ, NM, NY, OH, OR, PA, RI, TN, TX, UT, VA, WA, WI, and WY. Please see the firm’s recall announcement for additional product information.
Lawrence Wholesale, LLC of Vernon, CA also recalled a limited quantity of Kroger bagged frozen shrimp and Kroger frozen shrimp products. Bagged frozen shrimp and shrimp cocktail products were sold by Kroger in the following states: AK, AL, AR, AZ, CA, CO, GA, ID, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MI, MO, MS, MT, NE, NM, NV, OH, OR, SC, TN, TX, UT, VA, WA, WI, WV, and WY. Please see the firm’s recall announcement for additional product information.
All recalls related to this incident will be posted on the 2025 Recalls of Frozen Shrimp Products Associated with Cesium-137 Contamination from PT. Bahari Makmur Sejati due to Potential Safety Concerns page moving forward.
FDA’s investigation is ongoing . Information will be added to this page if advice for consumers changes based on investigational activities.
Product Descriptions
All recalls related to this incident will be posted on the 2025 Recalls of Frozen Shrimp Products Associated with Cesium-137 Contamination from PT. Bahari Makmur Sejati due to Potential Safety Concerns page moving forward.
Previous Updates
September 22, 2025
On September 19, 2025, AquaStar (USA) Corp of Seattle, WA, expanded its recall to approximately 49,920 bags (net wt. 2lbs) of Kroger Raw Colossal EZ Peel Shrimp, approximately 18,000 bags (net wt. 2lbs) of Kroger Mercado Cooked Medium Peeled Tail-Off Shrimp, and approximately 17,264 bags (net wt. 1.25lbs) of AquaStar Raw Peeled Tail-on Shrimp Skewers.
The affected shrimp was sold at Baker’s, City Market, Dillons, Food 4 Less, Foodsco, Fred Meyer, Fry’s, Gerbes, Jay C, King Soopers, Kroger, Mariano’s, Metro Market, Pay Less Supermarkets, Pick ‘n Save, Ralphs, Smith’s, and QFC in AK, AL, AR, AZ, CA, CO, GA, ID, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MI, MO, MS, MT, NE, NM, NV, OH, OR, SC, TN, TX, UT, VA, WA, WI, WV, and WY between June 12, 2025, and September 17, 2025.
Please see the firm’s press for additional product details.
September 2, 2025
On August 29, 2025, Southwind Foods, LLC of Carson, CA, recalled a limited quantity of Frozen Shrimp. The bagged, frozen shrimp product was distributed between July 17 – August 8, 2025, to retailers, distributors, and wholesalers in the following states: Alabama, Arizona, California, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, Utah, Virginia, and Washington.
Please see the firm’s recall press for additional product details.
August 29, 2025
AquaStar (USA) Corp of Seattle, WA, recalled approximately 26,460 packages of Cocktail Shrimp 6oz . packaged in a clear plastic tray and approximately 18,000 bags (net wt. 2lbs) of Kroger Mercado Cooked Medium Peeled Tail-Off Shrimp .
Additional product information and product images can be found on the firm’s recall press.
August 22, 2025
On August 22, 2025, Beaver Street Fisheries, LLC of Jacksonville, FL recalled Great Value Frozen Raw Shrimp EZ-Peel & Deveined Tail-On 21-25 Per lb. The product was distributed in the states of AL, AR, FL, GA, KY, LA, MO, MS, OH, OK, PA, TX, and WV and available for consumer purchase in select Walmart retail stores in those states from 07/28/2025 to 08/07/2025.
Please see the firm’s recall press for additional product information and product images.
August 21, 2025
On August 21, Southwind Foods, LLC initiated a recall of multiple brands of raw and cooked frozen shrimp. The bagged, frozen shrimp product was offered for sale between July 17 – August 8, 2025, to retailers, distributors, and wholesalers in the following states: AL, AZ, CA, MA, MN, PA, UT, VA, WA.
Please see the firm’s recall for more product information and product images.
August 19, 2025
FDA is actively investigating reports of Cesium-137 (Cs-137) contamination in shipping containers and frozen shrimp products processed by PT. Bahari Makmur Sejati (doing business as BMS Foods) of Indonesia. The U.S. Customs & Border Protection (CBP) alerted FDA to the detection of Cs-137 in shipping containers at four U.S. ports (Los Angeles, Houston, Savannah, and Miami). FDA collected multiple samples for radionuclide analysis, with results confirming the presence of Cs-137 in one sample of breaded shrimp. All containers and product testing positive or alerting for Cs-137 have been denied entry into the country. The agency continues to coordinate with CBP to prevent any contaminated products from reaching consumers and is working with Indonesian seafood regulatory authorities to investigate the root cause of the contamination.
Although testing to date has not confirmed the presence of contamination in any product in commerce, the product appears to have been prepared, packed, or held under insanitary conditions whereby it may have become contaminated with Cs-137 and may pose a safety concern. To date, FDA has learned that Walmart has received implicated raw frozen shrimp, imported after the date of first detection of Cs-137 by CBP, but from shipments that did not alert for Cs-137. FDA has recommended Walmart recall this product.
Consumers should not eat or serve certain lots of Great Value raw frozen shrimp from Walmart:
Great Value brand frozen raw shrimp, lot code: 8005540-1, Best by Date: 3/15/2027
Great Value brand frozen raw shrimp, lot code: 8005538-1, Best by Date: 3/15/2027
Great Value brand frozen raw shrimp, lot code: 8005539-1, Best by Date: 3/15/2027.
If you have recently purchased raw frozen shrimp from Walmart that matches this description, throw it away. Do not eat or serve this product.
Cs-137 is a radioisotope of cesium that is man-made through nuclear reactions and because it is widespread worldwide, trace amounts of Cs-137 can be found in the environment, including soil, food, and air. FDA food monitoring focuses on radioisotopes (radionuclides) that are not normally present and are generally the result of human activities. Any unexpected finding of Cs-137 in a food product is evaluated to determine if follow up action is warranted on a case-by-case basis. After being alerted to the contamination of shipping containers detected by CBP, FDA initiated sampling of products which included five different shrimp products from PT. Bahari Makmur Sejati, one of which was a sample of frozen breaded shrimp. FDA's laboratory confirmation of Cs-137 in the breaded shrimp had detectable levels of Cs-137 present at 68.48 Bq/kg +/- 8.25 Bq/kg. There was no detectable Cs-137 in the other products tested; however, this does not rule out contamination.
FDA has not detected Cs-137 in any product above the current derived intervention levels for Cs-137 (1200 Bq/kg); however, FDA has concluded that the level detected in the breaded shrimp sample could represent a potential health concern for those exposed to this level of Cs-137 from consumption of the shrimp over an extended period of time combined with radiation that exists in the environment and from other sources such as medical procedures. Avoiding products like the shipment FDA tested with similar levels of Cs-137 is a measure intended to reduce exposure to low-level radiation that could have health impacts with continued exposure over a long period of time. FDA has taken swift action to prevent potentially contaminated product from being introduced into U.S. commerce in response to reports of contaminated shipping containers from CBP. On August 14, 2025, FDA posted a new import alert (IA 99-51) for chemical contamination under section 402(a)(4) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. PT. Bahari Makmur Sejati has been added to the red list of this alert due to the presence of Cs-137. The import alert ensures that no implicated shrimp products will enter U.S. commerce until the company resolves the conditions that gave rise to the appearance of the violation.
FDA will continue working with industry to trace all implicated products processed by PT. Bahari Makmur Sejati through the supply chain to gather as much information about them as possible and take action as appropriate. Product information will be added to this advisory as it becomes available.
Useful Links
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry resources.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s- Cesium-137
FDA Response to Imported Foods Potentially Contaminated with Cesium-137
Import Alert # 99-51
Who to Contact
Consumers who have symptoms should contact their health care provider to report their symptoms and receive care.
To report a complaint or adverse event (illness or serious allergic reaction), visit Industry and Consumer Assistance .
Follow us on X
Content current as of:
10/07/2025
Regulated Product(s)
Food & Beverages