Additional Product Images
Product:
Addall-brand dietary supplement products:
Orange flavored Addall XR Shot
Addall XL 30 capsules
Health risks:
Laboratory testing of online retail samples of these products by FDA found that they contained unlawful and undeclared ingredients that are harmful to health:
The orange-flavored Addall XR Shot contains Phenibut (β-phenyl-GABA) , an unlawful ingredient in dietary supplements, as well as undeclared 1,4-DMAA (1,4-dimethylamylamine)
The Addall XL 30 capsules contain 2-amino-6-methylheptane (DMHA) , an unlawful ingredient in dietary supplements, as well as undeclared 1,4-DMAA
DMAA and DMHA can elevate blood pressure and could lead to cardiovascular problems, including shortness of breath, tightening of the chest, and even heart attack.
Phenibut can cause neurocognitive side effects including the development of poor balance, fatigue, and diminished or loss of consciousness. The primary risk is potential addiction (possibly developing after using the product only a few times) and, consequently, the development of withdrawal symptoms with cessation of consumption of the product. Consuming phenibut, especially in higher doses, could also lead to life-threatening complications if it is used in combination with other substances (prescribed or illicit).
Stores affected:
These dietary supplements are distributed by ZMB Enterprises, LLC and sold online and at retail locations such as gas stations and convenience stores nationwide.
Recommendation:
Consumers should stop using these products immediately and should throw them away.
Retailers and distributors should not sell or distribute Orange-flavored Addall XR Shot or Addall XL 30 capsules.
Wholesalers or distributors that further distributed these products should cease distribution and notify their customers about the health risks of these products.
If you become ill after consuming any of these products, please contact your healthcare provider immediately to report their symptoms and receive care.
Current Update
April 3, 2026
The FDA is warning consumers not to eat, sell, or distribute orange-flavored Addall XR Shot or Addall XL capsules distributed by ZMB Enterprises, LLC of Carlsbad, CA. These products pose serious health risks to consumers and should be disposed of immediately.
FDA sampled and tested Addall XR Shot and Addall XL capsules, and they were both found to contain the following unlawful and/or undeclared ingredients:
Orange flavored Addall XR Shot Liquid Dietary Supplement was found to contain undeclared 1,4-DMAA. The shot also contains phenibut (β-phenyl-GABA), which is not a lawful ingredient in dietary supplements
Addall XL Dietary Supplement Capsules were found to contain undeclared 1,4-DMAA. The capsules also contain DMHA, which is not a lawful ingredient in dietary supplements.
On January 6, 2026, FDA informed ZMB Enterprises, LLC of the test results and recommended a recall of both products. The firm agreed to a voluntary recall of only one product, the Addall XR shot liquid dietary supplement due to the presence of phenibut. The firm also informed FDA that they would no longer use phenibut in their products. The firm declined to recall Addall XL capsules.
FDA is issuing this public health alert to notify the customers and consumers about the health risks that both these products pose.
DMAA and DMHA can lead to increased blood pressure, which could contribute to shortness of breath or a heart attack. Phenibut can cause neurocognitive side effects including the development of poor balance, fatigue, diminished or loss of consciousness, and lead to addiction. Consuming both these products, especially in higher doses, could also lead to life-threatening complications, especially if it is used in combination with other substances (prescribed or illicit).
This food safety alert will be updated as more information becomes available.
Product Images
Who to Contact
Consumers who have symptoms should contact their health care provider to report their symptoms and receive care.
To report a complaint or adverse event (illness or serious allergic reaction), visit Industry and Consumer Assistance .
Follow us on X
Content current as of:
04/03/2026
Regulated Product(s)
Food & Beverages