General Food Safety Tips for Consumers
To keep protect against foodborne illness, people should, follow these four simple steps : clean, separate, cook, and chill.
People should consult their healthcare provider if they suspect that they have developed symptoms of foodborne illnesses like:
Salmonellosis
Listeriosis
E. coli infections
Hepatitis A infections
Cyclosporiasis
Consumers should follow these steps for cleaning surfaces that may have been in contact with contaminated food:
Wash the inside walls and shelves of the refrigerator, cutting boards and countertops, and utensils that may have contacted contaminated foods; then sanitize them with a solution of one tablespoon of chlorine bleach to one gallon of hot water; dry with a clean cloth or paper towel that has not been previously used.
Wash and sanitize surfaces used to serve or store potentially contaminated products.
Wash hands with warm water and soap following the cleaning and sanitation process.
General Food Safety Tips for Retailers
If retailers and/or other food service operators have handled recalled or other potentially contaminated food in their facilities, they should:
Contact their local health department and communicate to their customers regarding possible exposure to a pathogen.
Wash the inside walls and shelves of the refrigerator, cutting boards and countertops, and utensils that may have contacted contaminated foods; then sanitize them with a solution of one tablespoon of chlorine bleach to one gallon of hot water. Air dry or use after adequate draining.
Wash and sanitize display cases and surfaces used to potentially store, serve, or prepare potentially contaminated foods, such as shopping carts, food storage units, and reusable plastic containers.
Wash hands with warm water and soap following the cleaning and sanitation process.
Conduct regular frequent cleaning and sanitizing of cutting boards and utensils used in processing to help minimize the likelihood of cross-contamination.
General Tips for Retailers on Handling Recalled Produce
The tips below can be applied to the handling of most recalled food processed in retail facilities, in order to prevent cross contamination. These tips are especially important for the handling of recalled produce, or other products processed in retail locations.
Stop serving or selling recalled produce, whether it is fresh or frozen. Produce stored at cold temperatures can be contaminated. For example, Listeria monocytogenes can grow even at refrigerated temperatures. Listeria monocytogenes does not grow at freezer temperatures but can survive in those temperatures.
Keep recalled produce away from other foods and from any equipment, utensils, and linens, among other things.
Determine if cross-contamination with other foods may have happened.
Determine the source of the produce, or the supplier if the source of the fresh/frozen produce is unknown.
Follow the instructions from the source or supplier on how to return or dispose of the recalled produce.
Your employees should wash their hands thoroughly after handling recalled produce.
Wash any clothing and linens that have may be contaminated.
Resources
Recalls, Market Withdrawals, and Safety Alerts
Outbreaks of Foodborne Illness
Retail Food Protection
Selecting and Serving Produce Safely
2017 Food Code
FSMA Final Rule on Produce Safety
Who to Contact
Consumers who have symptoms should contact their health care provider to report their symptoms and receive care.
To report a complaint or adverse event (illness or serious allergic reaction), visit Industry and Consumer Assistance .
Content current as of:
07/24/2026
Regulated Product(s)
Food & Beverages