What's New
December 10, 2025
The FDA is updating the alert below with an additional product, recalled Lucky Foods Cinnamon Powder, that contains elevated levels of lead. New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets collected samples of this product. Exposure to this product may be unsafe. Please view the table and recommendations below for more details.
Original Public Health Alert
July 30, 2024
Product
Through product testing by state programs and confirmed by the FDA, the FDA has determined that the ground cinnamon products listed in the table below contain elevated levels of lead and that exposure to these products may be unsafe. The FDA is advising consumers to throw away and not to buy these ground cinnamon products.
Recommendations for Consumers
The FDA is advising consumers to stop using and dispose of the ground cinnamon products listed in the table below.
Consumers should not eat, sell, or serve ground cinnamon products listed in the table below and should discard them.
These products have a long shelf life. Consumers should check their homes and discard these products.
If there’s suspicion that someone has been exposed to elevated levels of lead, talk to your healthcare provider. Most people have no obvious immediate symptoms of lead exposure.
Consumers who have symptoms should contact their health care provider to report their symptoms and receive care. To report a complaint or adverse event (illness or serious allergic reaction), visit Industry and Consumer Assistance .
Distributor
Retailer(s)
Lot Code(s)
/Product Expiration
Brand Name(s)
Lead Concentration (ppm)
Product Image
TBC Distribution Corporate
Recall Announcement
General retailer location information is included in the firm’s recall press
Best before: 15.09.2027
Lucky Foods Brand
3.00 and 4.17
Venzu Traders, LLC
Retail locations have been requested, and this table will be updated once the information is received.
B.NO. 202102
Venzu Traders
3.00
Homeneeds, Inc.
Recall Announcement
Sold at Apna Bazar in WA from 05/15/2025 to 10/21/2025
UPC Code:
6 09595 11904 5
Batch No: 2502315
DEVI
2.92
Good Way Trading Group Inc.
Retail locations have been requested, and this table will be updated once the information is received.
UPC code:
4 897055 799401
Best by date:
EXP: 11.12.2026
BaiLiFeng
10.7
Singh Trading Inc. DBA Roshni Foods
Retail locations have been requested, and this table will be updated once the information is received
Batch No.: 2409191
UPC code:
15990 012878
Roshni
2.268
Haitai, Inc. USA
Recall Announcement
Various supermarkets nationwide
UPC code: 0 20914 81415 9
Best by date: BESTBY 02/09/25
HAETAE (HT)
4.60
EUREKA INC. U.S.A.
Recall Announcement
Distributed to grocery stores in California and Michigan from 08/24/2024 to 10/6/2025
Batch No.: 06 B:02
UPC code: 6251136 034139
Best by date: May 2026
Durra
2.44
SLR Food Distribution, Inc
Recall Announcement
Distributed to retailers located (New Jersey, New York, Florida, Maryland, Minnesota, Oklahoma, Ohio) between 02/15/2024 and 06/28/2025
UPC code: 0 688474 302853
Wise Wife
2.49
Spicy World of USA
TAJ SUPERMARKET
AF-CINP/822 Best by date: Best Before: July 2025
Jiva Organics
2.29
IHA Beverage, Commerce, CA IHA Beverage Issues a Voluntary Recall of Super Cinnamon Powder 4oz Because of Lead Contamination
Asian Supermarket, Little Rock, AR
Super Brand
7.68
6.60
Sands Impex Inc.
Dba Asli Fine Foods Woodbridge, IL Asli Fine Foods . Recalls Asli Cinnamon Powder 7 oz Because of Possible Health Risk
A&Y Global Market Columbia, MO
DDDLUS (Missouri)
Asli
2.32
El Chilar Apopka, FL El Chilar HF, LLC. Expands Recall of El Chilar Ground Cinnamon Due to Elevated Levels of Lead
El Torito Market
D181EX0624 (Maryland)
E054EX0225 (Maryland)
El Chilar
3.75
7.01
Moran Foods, LLC Saint Ann, MO Colonna Brothers, Inc. Issues an Updated Voluntary Recall for Marcum & Supreme Tradition Ground Cinnamon Because of Possible Health Risk
Save-A-Lot Food Stores, Ltd.
BEST BY:
12/05/25 12 D8 (Missouri)
BEST BY:
12/05/25 12 D11 (Virginia)
Marcum
2.22
2.14
Raja Foods LLC Skokie, IL
Patel Brothers
Batch No.: KX28223, Best Before October 2026 (Connecticut)
SWAD
2.89
Greenbrier International, Inc.
Chesapeake, VA Colonna Brothers, Inc. Issues an Updated Voluntary Recall for Marcum & Supreme Tradition Ground Cinnamon Because of Possible Health Risk
Dollar Tree
10A11, BEST BY: 10/06/25 (California)
Supreme Tradition
2.37
MAMTAKIM, Inc., Elizabeth, NJ (importer)
Eurogrocery
Exp and Lot: 08 2024 L1803231 (Connecticut)
Compania Indillor Orientale
2.23
ALB-USA Enterprises Inc., Bronx, NY ALB-USA Enterprises Recalls ALB Flavor Ground Cinnamon Because of Possible Health Risk
Eurogrocery
Best Before:30/08/2025 - LA02 (Connecticut)
ALB Flavor
3.93
Advance Food International, Inc Advance Food International Inc. Recalls Shahzada Brand Cinnamon Powder 7oz Because of Possible Health Risk
Premium Supermarket
None (New York)
Shahzada
2.03
American Spices LLC, NY American Spices LLC. Recalls Spice Class Ground Cinnamon Because of Possible Health Risk
Fish World
Best by: 12/2026 (New York)
Spice Class
2.04
La Frontera Imports
Frutas Y Abarrotes Mexico, Inc.
None (New York)
La Frontera
2.66
The FDA has recommended that the firms voluntarily recall these products. The FDA will update this notice with the communications from firms that voluntarily agree to recall as we receive them. Please see our previous alerts on ground cinnamon products, March 6, 2024 alert , and July 25, 2024 alert , for a list of additional ground cinnamon products previously recommended for recall.
The FDA is continuing to analyze cinnamon and review sample results received from state partners who have been continuously sampling ground cinnamon at retail for elevated levels of lead. This public health alert will be updated as necessary if the FDA finds that additional products contain elevated levels of lead and that exposure to these products may be unsafe.
Potential Health Effects
Based on FDA’s assessment, consuming these products could contribute to elevated levels of lead in the blood. Long-term exposure (months to years) to elevated levels of lead in the diet could contribute to adverse health effects, particularly for the portion of the population that may already have elevated blood lead levels from other exposures to lead. If you are concerned that you or anyone in your family may have symptoms of lead toxicity, the FDA recommends you contact your healthcare provider.
The potential for adverse health effects from consuming food contaminated with lead vary depending on the level of lead in the food; age of the consumer; length, amount, and frequency of exposure to lead in the food; and other exposures to different sources of lead. For example, the very young are particularly vulnerable to the potential harmful effects from lead exposure because of their smaller body sizes and rapid metabolism and growth. High levels of exposure to lead in utero, infancy, and early childhood can lead to neurological effects such as learning disabilities, behavior difficulties, and lowered IQ.
FDA’s Advice to Help Protect Against the Effects of Lead
Good nutrition – like meeting the recommendations in the Dietary Guidelines for Americans – can help protect against the health effects from exposure to lead. Eating a variety of healthy foods can make it less likely for an individual to be exposed to the same contaminant from the same food many times and helps to provide the range of nutrients needed for health and, for children, healthy development. Having adequate nutrients stored in the body also can help to prevent lead from having harmful effects. To get adequate food variety, FDA recommends that consumers eat many different foods from the five food groups – vegetables, fruits, grains, dairy, and protein foods – and to alternate how often you provide the same food.
Purpose
The FDA is advising consumers to throw away and not to buy the ground cinnamon products listed above because samples of these products were found to contain elevated levels of lead. Based on the FDA’s assessment, prolonged exposure to these products may be unsafe and could contribute to elevated levels of lead in the blood. No illnesses or adverse events have been reported to date in association with these products.
While the ground cinnamon products in this alert may not be a food targeted to young children, cinnamon is used in many foods young children consume. Consistent with the agency’s Closer to Zero initiative , which focuses on reducing childhood exposure to lead, the agency is recommending voluntary recall of the products listed above because prolonged exposure to the products may be unsafe. Removing the ground cinnamon products in this alert from the market will prevent them from contributing elevated amounts of lead to the diets of children.
Summary of Problem and Scope
The FDA is taking the additional step in issuing a third public health alert this year for ground cinnamon to ensure the safety of ground cinnamon used in foods that are frequently consumed by babies and young children. In this third alert, the FDA is recommending recalls of 11 brands of ground cinnamon products with elevated lead levels ranging from 2.03 to 7.68 parts per million (ppm) (see table above for a full list of lead levels in these products). These levels are significantly lower than the levels of lead associated with the WanaBana cinnamon apple puree and applesauce products recalled in the fall of 2023, which had between 2,270 ppm to 5,110 ppm lead in the cinnamon.
During the last year, prior to the recall of WanaBana apple puree and applesauce products containing elevated levels of lead and chromium, the FDA asked states to prioritize testing of ground cinnamon and other spices. Following the FDA’s targeted assessment of ground cinnamon products for lead and chromium and the FDA public health alert issued earlier this year, several states provided the FDA with data for samples of ground cinnamon collected through the Laboratory Flexible Funding Model (LFFM). This is a cooperative agreement with states to help investigate, monitor and remove adulterated foods from commerce and aid regulatory programs. Arkansas, California, Maryland, Missouri, Connecticut, and Virginia collected ground cinnamon samples through the LFFM, in addition to samples collected outside the LFFM from the New York State Department of Agriculture and Markets, all included in this public health alert. The FDA is continuing to review sample results received from state partners who have been continuously sampling ground cinnamon at retail for elevated levels of lead and will update this alert as necessary if the FDA finds that additional products contain elevated levels of lead and that exposure to these products may be unsafe.
FDA Actions
The FDA continues to work with states to test cinnamon sold directly to consumers at retail and to test cinnamon at import. The FDA will continue our activities at import to prevent unsafe cinnamon from reaching consumers in the U.S., including adding firms and products to import alert where appropriate.
For ingredient suppliers and final products that contain cinnamon, the FDA advises both domestic and foreign food suppliers to voluntarily test their products to ensure safety. Ultimately, it is the responsibility of the manufacturers and the importers to ensure the safety of the products that enter into the U.S. market. In March 2024, the FDA sent a letter to cinnamon manufacturers, processors, distributors and facility operators in the U.S. reminding them of the requirement to implement controls to prevent contamination from potential chemical hazards in food, including in ground cinnamon products. The FDA will continue to work with firms to ensure they are meeting their responsibilities under provisions of the Current Good Manufacturing Practice, Hazard Analysis, and Risk-Based Preventive Controls for Human Food rule .
The FDA is also continuing its Toxic Elements monitoring program, which includes testing of a variety of foods, including colored spices offered for sale in the U.S. In addition to sampling, as part of the FY2025 Legislative proposal , the FDA is seeking to amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) to expressly require industry to conduct testing of final products, including those marketed for consumption by infants and young children, for contaminants and maintain such records of these testing results for FDA inspection.
Additional Information
March 6, 2024, FDA Alert Concerning Certain Cinnamon Products Due to Presence of Elevated Levels of Lead
July 25, 2024, FDA Public Health Alert Additional Ground Cinnamon Product Due to Presence of Elevated Levels of Lead
Post- Incident Response Activities: Elevated Lead and Chromium Levels in Cinnamon Applesauce Pouches
Lead in Food and Foodwares | FDA
Health Effects of Lead Exposure | CDC
Help Protect Children from Environmental Contaminants: Healthy Food Choices for Your Baby Aged 6-12 Months | FDA
Previous Updates
November 7, 2025
The FDA is updating the alert below with an additional product, Venzu Traders cinnamon (dalchini) powder, that contains elevated levels of lead. FDA collected samples of this product at a retail establishment. Exposure to this product may be unsafe. Please view the table and recommendations below for more details.
October 30, 2025
The FDA is updating the alert with additional products, DEVI-brand and BaiLiFeng-brand ground cinnamon, that contain elevated levels of lead. FDA collected samples of these products at a retail establishment. Exposure to these products may be unsafe. Please view the table and recommendations for more details.
October 10, 2025
The FDA is updating the alert with additional products, HAETAE-brand and Roshni-brand ground cinnamon, that contain elevated levels of lead. FDA collected samples of these products at a retail establishment. Exposure to these products may be unsafe. Please view the table and recommendations for more details.
October 8, 2025
The FDA is updating the alert with additional products, Durra-brand and Wise Wife-brand ground cinnamon, that contain elevated levels of lead. Samples of these products were collected at a retail establishment by the FDA. Exposure to these products may be unsafe. Please view the table and recommendations for more details.
September 12, 2025
The FDA is updating the alert below with an additional product, Jiva Organic ground cinnamon, that contains elevated levels of lead. The samples were collected at a retail establishment by the FDA. Exposure to this product may be unsafe. Please view the table and recommendations for more details.
November 1, 2024
The FDA is updating the alert with an additional product, Super Brand ground cinnamon, that contains elevated levels of lead. The samples were collected at a retail establishment by the Arkansas Department of Health and reviewed by the FDA. Exposure to this product may be unsafe. Please view the table and recommendations for more details.
August 30, 2024
The FDA is continuing to review sample results received from state partners who have been continuously sampling ground cinnamon at retail establishments for elevated levels of lead. We are updating this alert with an additional product, Asli brand ground cinnamon, that contains elevated levels of lead. Exposure to this product may be unsafe. Please view the table and recommendations for more details.
Content current as of:
12/10/2025
Regulated Product(s)
Food & Beverages